for many people they are unaware it's a
slippery slope you love what you do and
if you love what you do it's hard to
stop doing what you love insecurities
around money here where the scarcity
mindset where you have to be working
more and more and more and making more
and more and more money and you have to
be hustling and working this hard
there's that fear of missing out that
everybody else is doing more while I'm
having dinner with my family so I've got
to keep going I discontinued my Creator
supercharged Mastermind and off-boarded
all of my high ticket clients I scaled
down my multi-seven figure business I
downsized my team from nine to just one
when is this going to end we just can't
keep doing this I hate our lives
[Music]
foreign
hey welcome to this edition of build
your tribe today you're in luck you've
got both Brock and myself hey Brock
what's going on nothing much excited to
have this conversation today dude
literally we talked about this last
night on a call and I was like we
actually were not called we're texting
okay it turned into a phone call though
that's true
um and with the recent news of Vanessa
Lau who's like a huge Instagram and
YouTube expert someone who's had
tremendous success
um on both platforms I mean her business
is really what I think most people would
consider like at the Pinnacle right now
where people dream of being and she
recently announced that she was shutting
almost everything down to take an
indefinite sabbatical due to burnout and
that's a really common theme amongst
content creators and it's something we
want to dive into because many of you
most of you are content creators and I
think this is going to be a really
candid conversation of course yeah we
don't know Vanessa personally and so
we're not able to you know interview her
on the podcast per se I doubt she's even
doing interviews right now uh but we
will share with you what she said in her
email slash blog post slash social media
post kind of announcing the sabbatical
um and this was originally posted on
February 22nd of 2023
um but we're also going to get really
honest about you know Mom I know you had
past experience when I was growing up
when I was younger uh dealing with
burnout personally I've been able to
avoid burnout I've been really fortunate
to never really feel that way and I
we're going to get into we're going to
talk about how that can be dangerous too
and we're going to talk about how this
is something they really have to be
careful of we're going to help you
identify what type of personalities are
more prone to burnout if you're someone
who doesn't burn out you're also at risk
we're going to talk about that other
creators some of the signs that you need
to look for in yourself and in the
people around you because sometimes it's
the people around you who are burning
out before you do when and we're just
have some really real conversations by
the way thank you for joining us today
here on build your tribe we now have a
YouTube channel so if you want to see
my cute earrings
and uh Brock and I live or not live and
it vid the video of this and we're going
to put some graphics and some people
that we'll be talking about you'll see
images of them if you do want to watch
us on YouTube which we would love to
have you subscribe there otherwise just
thank you for listening here on build
your tribe Brock do you want to start um
do you think maybe uh talking about
yourself like why do you think because
first of all let's just talk about how
much content you create yeah so
um I added it up recently and it's kind
of crazy so it's three feed posts per
day on Instagram I'll just tell you what
I'm like posting every day three feed
posts per day on Instagram uh about 10
stories per day on Instagram
two tick tocks per day
four Facebook posts per day four tweets
per day uh at least one post on
Pinterest per day
um I've also recently started posting on
Clapper and lemonade which are two brand
new social media platforms which were on
uh the quick tip Tuesday episode of
build your tribe from a couple weeks ago
um and I think I oh yeah and then
YouTube of course so we have uh one one
to two build your tribe episodes that
I'm recording per week as well as one
YouTube video on my channel and one
YouTube video on uh kind of our passion
project Channel with my wife which is
our tan Brock channel so it's a lot of
flipping content I think um and we are
going to read Vanessa's letter it's it's
pretty shocking to know how much and I
think we can't confirm this but by some
of her own reports she was earning up to
five hundred thousand dollars a month a
month
that's insane that's really truly insane
but like so many people who become
entrepreneurs you become an entrepreneur
because you want to escape you want
freedom but if you don't have boundaries
in place if you don't know how to
delegate if you haven't learned really
how to be a smart entrepreneur you can
get caught up in working like 80 90
hours a week yeah yeah I've even seen
those well Your Own Boss yeah I've seen
some memes about it where it's like hey
you left the 40-hour work week working
for someone else and now you're working
80 hours a week for yourself and I think
it's a really easy trap to fall into
especially in the world that we live in
post 1980 where we have access access to
the internet at home so you can be
working anytime anywhere and that's one
of the real like Beauties and things
that we say is like a great Pro of
Entrepreneurship is you can work anytime
anywhere whenever you want from home but
what that also means is now so you
technically if you wanted to or if you
felt the need to you don't have to turn
it all off you could work 24 7 365 and
now all of a sudden that hour of of uh
you know 6 p.m to 7 p.m at night where
if you were working a nine to five job
that hour is just you at home you're not
at work anymore you're having dinner
with your family if you're an
entrepreneur that hour could be spent
having dinner with your family or that
hour could be spent filming another
YouTube video or making some more
content or working on your funnel and so
it creates this burden or this pressure
within entrepreneurship that hey if
you're not working for x amount of time
uh you're wasting money and you're
wasting that time
it's also maybe not choosing to make a
YouTube video and have dinner with your
family but you're having dinner with
your family but you're not present yeah
like you're looking down at your phone
you're checking emails you're responding
to things you're uh creating a to-do
list for the next day so it and it's not
so much that people make a decision to
do it I think speaking from personal
experience for many people they are
unaware that they've slipped it's a
slippery slope you love what you do and
if you love what you do it's hard to
stop doing what you love yeah absolutely
and I think like you said people
approach it from like a noble standpoint
or a good intention standpoint where
they want to help more people or they
truly love what they do and they just
fall into the same slippery slope that
they did at work the only difference is
now instead of working from for someone
else who legally can't work them that
many hours a week they know it for
themselves where they can overwork
themselves
um and I think there's also a lot of
like ideas of insecurities around money
here where there's there's this the
scarcity mindset where you have to be
working more and more and more and
making more and more and more money and
you have to be hustling and working this
hard
um because even though we've left the
nine to five there still is this idea of
like well even as an entrepreneur I
should be working 40 hours a week or
even everybody else is myself I need to
keep up with the same consistency yeah
there's that fear of missing out that
everybody else is doing more while I'm
having dinner with my family so I've got
to keep going I think there's a number
of reasons why someone can burn out
right so sometimes that burnout is
because you're working too much but
there are a lot of examples and we're
going to share some of those of people
who have taken a break from social media
specifically
um and it doesn't have any well we don't
know how much of it has to do with how
hard they're working but I mean look
Jenna Marbles she stepped away from
YouTube when there was this big
controversy around something she had
said in the past and
she just left there's quite a few other
examples of like people in the fitness
industry people who are
um fashion bloggers people who really
were like at the peak and then they
started kind of doing this where like it
was a Love Fest and then they would have
kind of a storm of people
um coming for them which happens when
you're at the top you can't stay at the
top people are eventually going to come
for you and if you're the kind of person
who really derives your value
which can be really confusing from
millions of people who don't know you
and now you've got this big group of
people who are angry with you uh quote
unquote canceling you so a lot of people
have just said I'm walking away I'm not
going to deal with this anymore that's
one reason another reason why I think
people quit is they struggle with the
online identity they've created for
themselves
um
Yeah so basically the idea here if I'm
picking up what you're putting down
um is like they have this Persona on
social media or they have this like way
of being yeah um and they feel like
they've changed or they've grown or
they've outgrown that or they're maybe
that has never aligned with who they are
offline and so it kind of is hard to
keep up with this character is that what
you're saying yeah also I mean think
about how people get really you know
today the way to grow we you know like
it or hate hate it is to Niche down and
to Niche down is to basically take your
whole personality and put into one tiny
little sliver like you are this diverse
person you're multi-interested
multi-talented you've got this
experience that's varied but yet social
media just wants this one thing from you
and I can tell you from personal
experience that was one of the most
stifling
debilitating you feel like you feel like
you're being untrue to yourself and you
also feel like
part of views died and there's just like
this one thing that you're like be start
to become resentful of yeah that totally
makes sense I definitely have heard lots
of creators say that I feel like a lot
of burnout stems from
um we going back to like your why of why
you got into it or why you started
growing or why you started whatever this
business or this content creation is
um and when that why is taken away or
why that or when that why is impacted
that can really lead to burnout one
thing though that I've noticed
um is oftentimes not a indication of
burnout is a you know the the income
you're making like there's very little
correlation there I feel like they're
like there are definitely creators and
entrepreneurs who feel burnt out and
take a break because they're they're not
making money anymore but I also know
plenty of creators and entrepreneurs
um who take a break like at the peak
when they're making a lot of money like
we talked about when Esther earlier she
said in her uh blog post that she's
going on radical that you know she's
just now hitting half million dollar
months and she's deciding to shut it
down so it seems like the answer it
doesn't have a huge correlation or does
it because here's what I'm thinking is
you know when when you're not making
enough money you don't have the luxury
the privilege of walking away okay when
I walked away from uh basically creating
Fitness content I was in a privileged
position where I was like I don't have
to do any of this
money anymore and and so it may be part
of it is the fact that you get to a
place where you're like what am I doing
I don't it's not even like
um I don't need the money anymore but
like you realize like I don't need more
at this cost like the cost to my mental
health and I mean there are so many
people who took a break and they say it
was because mental health reasons and
and I'm gonna say
of the people when I did our research
for this episode I would say over 75 of
them are female
that's interesting I wonder I wonder how
much of that just in general has to do
with
um content creators being oftentimes
female
what are your thoughts on that I don't
know I think I think it's different for
women like Brock to get ready for this
YouTube video right with this podcast
what did you do to your hair and makeup
uh nothing nothing and did you have to
pick out like matching earrings and are
you really super worried about the light
no I had to make sure that my shirt was
buttoned up and uh that was about it I
had to make sure my framing was good on
camera and I I don't know if this is
true for all women but I find that most
women are afraid to go on camera or
create content because they don't want
to be judged we are judged much more
harshly about our bodies our hair our
face our wrinkles uh she needs to get
work she's getting too much work she's
you know all the things that women are
judged for whether they're creating you
know YouTube content teaching Instagram
or they're a fashion blogger or a
fitness blogger there's so much
criticism in fact a lot of the people
who I'm looking at on this list of those
who took a break like Hannah bronfman
um God there's so many Fitness people
that I could name who just stepped away
because they're like I'm sick of it I'm
sick of having to maintain this weight
I'm sick of having people judge me that
I'm too thin I'm too heavy
um I'm sick of just having to create
this content and not being more than
that like I am more than that and I feel
like this is and all anyone's judging me
for so I do think that there's a lot of
women yeah and on a whole nother level
right so there's
there's those people who you start
making enough money and it just becomes
too much for your mental health uh is it
Casey neistatism yep
yeah exactly he's someone when he took
his break I mean I know he's still doing
stuff now but I think to a different
extent
um he cited mental health is the reason
why so you know maybe let me read um
this email that Vanessa sent to her
total subscribers okay she says as some
of you may know I've already noticed or
may have noticed already based on my
lack of presence lately on social media
I've made the decision to go on an
indefinite sabbatical AKA taking a long
extended break from work in addition to
making this decision I've also made
several difficult and surprising
decisions in the last three weeks I
discontinued my Creator supercharged
Mastermind and off-boarded all of my
high ticket clients I scaled down my
multi-7 figure business I downsized my
team to just one person from nine to
just one I canceled all masterminds all
contracts and subscriptions I'm a part
of I'm retiring my signature program
boss Graham Academy for good she says
for good I stepped down from all of my
speaking engagements including the ones
that I had on my vision board since I
started this business I sold my 160 000
Porsche 911 and swapped it for a Jeep
Wrangler here's my goodbye pick you
might be thinking what the F this B is
crazy I want to explain but first I want
to share a little story about my Google
corporate days and I think this is very
interesting I'm wondering how many
people listening can relate to this she
said when I first quit my corporate job
back in 2018 nobody in my circle
uh was shocked by the decision but
everyone was shocked by my timing it
felt so Random you just got your
promotion and now you're quitting people
would say or you're just such an
All-Star I really thought that you would
have climbed your way up to the top you
were so close but if I'm being honest
choosing to go on that sabbatical on
this sabbatical feels quite similar it
feels like I'm quitting right when
things are finally happening I'm finally
getting that big dog speaking engagement
I'm finally like holy making 500K
I'm having 500k months she says
um I'm so close to a million subscribers
on YouTube and finally growing and
scaling my business she says I'm finally
somebody and yet the height of
accomplishing all these things I found
myself losing total control of my life
and my mental well-being I found myself
squeezing my life and relationships
around the demands of my business oh I
want to read that again I found myself
squeezing my life and relationships
around the demands of my business
instead of building a business around
the life that I ultimately want to live
at the same time a part of me also feels
like I'm quitting too soon
but here's what I learned from reading
the book quit by Annie Duke which I
highly recommend quitting on time will
usually feel like quitting too early
if you quit on time it's going to seem
like any particular desire is happening
at that particular moment
that's because quitting is being able to
Glimpse at the range of ways the future
might play out and to see the likelihood
that things will turn out poorly is too
high and to make it worth your while to
continue in my case I've come to the
realization that I've been building a
bigger and bigger hamster wheel where I
deep down I know the following one I
know I won't have an end and two I know
I won't enjoy running hmm
in other words I've created this machine
that I don't even like and I'm realizing
it's a machine I no longer want to run
this isn't to say that I'm leaving
entrepreneurship this is to say in all
bold I'm taking a break to redefine what
entrepreneurship likes for me Vanessa if
you're watching or listening to this I
want to help you girl been there and it
is possible we're going to talk about
that in just a minute but she says I
mean isn't that why I started making
videos on YouTube in the first place
isn't this why I left my corporate job
to work less to earn more and have
control over where I spent my time and
yet here I am I'm falling into some
patterns as I did in my corporate job
constantly striving for more at the
expense of myself chasing things I think
I want getting them and then left
feeling dissatisfied burn out and again
chasing yet another thing don't get me
wrong though I love what I do and I'm
grateful for this career I love making
videos I love writing I love creating
she's a really good writer I love it
especially when things that I create
help people but lately I feel feel like
one I'm doing less of what I love and
when I do them it's no longer sparking
the same Joy it did before too I'm doing
more of the things I don't love three
I'm saying yes to things I don't even
want to do all for the sake of keeping
this machine running pleasing people
because I want to be liked I never
wanted to disappoint anyone or others I
feel so responsible
for everything in the past to solve this
problem I would keep making pivots in my
business whether extreme external or
internal however those pivots often felt
rushed they don't feel 100 aligned with
the constraints I've built in this
business employees clients projects
pre-commend events large expenses Etc
which is why I need to take a step back
she goes on to say I mean it's really
long so
um that's that's really the the gist of
it she just says goodbye for now and
with immense gratitude always Vanessa
she said please note that I won't be
actively managing any of my inboxes or
responding during this time which is why
we decided not to and we were going to
ask her for an interview but then Brock
and I were talking about we're like well
that wouldn't be very thoughtful yeah
instead let's talk about her
yeah
yeah what are your thoughts I know you
had some immediate thoughts when we
talked last night yeah I had some
immediate thoughts
um totally like feel for her like I I
can imagine can't even imagine how much
that sucks how much of a tough decision
this has been
um yeah it's just like so many I can't
even imagine what that would feel like
um and definitely feel for her in this
in this season
um I think that it's sad right to to
hear how how much he had lost the joy in
even the things that she loved doing
things that she was really good at and
things that used to spark her aren't
sparking her anymore
um and I think it's because those things
are becoming or have become or did
become a part of that hamster wheel that
she talked about where it kept becoming
a bigger and bigger bigger hamster wheel
and one thing that stood out to me is
where she said
um basically I realized I would never be
able to stop running
um and I think that's something that Mom
I know you and I have talked about a lot
off camera and off podcast
um is building businesses that aren't
extremely 100 reliant on you your face
your personality and just being online
um building businesses that other people
can run that can be sold that don't
require you to put yourself on camera or
to start recording your voice or even
really necessarily you
um personally to be doing all that much
because the more tied you are in that
way uh the more you have to do something
every single day so well stated Brock um
and and in true transparency I want to
say that even in creating YouTube's for
build your tribal because build your
tribe is manageable but I was talking to
our friend Warren Warren Carlisle and I
was telling him you know with this
YouTube I'm like but there's a very good
chance that I'll I'll we'll just can it
and walk away from it because you have
to have that boundary in place you have
you can't just keep adding on and adding
on adding on and ignoring
the fact that okay that was too much or
this is too much or this could be too
much that's number one number two is I
think about
how important it is to recognize that
things are sliding this way before you
reach that point where she is I don't
know Vanessa I don't know her personal
situation but when I read that letter it
so much of it felt familiar
again I I'm just hypothesizing
um
when you get to that point I think
there's a lot of things at play
I would suspect that this is also
relationship based you know because to
share my own story when you are the face
right which for a lot of you who are
listening
that's how you build your brand it's
personal brand it's you on an Instagram
it's your face on YouTube it's your
voice on the podcast it's you know your
picture on on the website and so you
often feel like
I have to be ever present I have to be
constantly creating I am the product and
that can feel really heavy and it can
also feel like you can't take a break
and it can also feel like no part of
this is passive yeah and that's how I
felt
um but I ignored it you know so you were
saying mom I never feel
really burnt out I didn't pick up on the
signs that I was burning out either
until your dad really he was one that
completely burnt out on it on our behalf
you know he was just like
when is this going to end like this we
just can't keep doing this I don't want
any like I hate our lives and I he never
said the d word but I really felt like
he was just gonna walk away the way some
of these people walk away from YouTube
like he didn't know how to exit
or have me exit this life so I really
worried feared in that moment when he
said that
um that he was just done
with everything including the marriage
so for me that's when I was like I'm I'm
done then I don't need any of this I
will walk away from all of that I will
sell all of our cars our houses and we
can live in a cardboard box because I
didn't know it had gotten that bad and I
think for a lot of
content creators who are also
Workaholics we can go and go and go
and we sometimes have a partner who's
like tolerant of it and putting up with
it and they joke around about it but
really they start to build resentment
and resentment can kill a relationship
yeah that makes sense
um I think personally speaking about
boundaries I actually was planning the
other day a carousel post for Instagram
about my boundaries for Instagram and
this was specifically for Instagram and
as I started making this post obviously
a carousel is only 10 slides I kept
adding okay this is another boundary
that's another boundary also Now look up
I was like 26 slides in come on yeah and
I was like oh like you know they share
them in the near future what was that
can you share them yeah I can find out I
can see if I can pull it up but you know
in the near future I'm like dang this is
too long to be a carousel but then you
know stepping back and seeing the bigger
picture I'm like okay wait this is
actually really awesome
um and I think part of the reason that
I'm able to avoid burnout and stay so
hyper consistent I think it was
marketing Harry who now has some lessons
in the marketing impact Academy who he
coined the term uh hyper hyper
consistency in defining how much I post
he's like Brock is hyper consistent like
there's consistency and then there's
hyper consistency that's how much Brock
posts and I appreciate that take that as
a compliment but I think I've been able
to uh maintain that
without feeling this burnout
um because I have so many boundaries in
place and I can pull up that post to
read what some of those uh what some of
those boundaries are but they're very
strict boundaries and you were talking
about interpersonal relationships my
wife Tay she does a really great job
um and we kind of keep each other in
check in this way of like hey we don't
work we don't work before this certain
hour we don't work after a certain hour
we don't uh you know do this thing and
force ourselves to record this YouTube
video
um and so we're able to really keep
ourselves in check but there was
definitely a time uh you know maybe late
2021 or early 2022 where it became the
norm uh to like work after dinner and be
sitting on the couch and you're not
really watching Netflix you're mainly
answering emails and planning the next
day's content
um and we did kind of have some
conversations about like hey we
recognize that this isn't the best for
our relationship or for ourselves as
individuals
um and so now we do a lot more to
prioritize filling up our cup and doing
things that are not productive in a
capitalistic sense or in a making money
sense things are just for your soul
right well how much of and I'm not
trying to lead the witness or you know
get any compliments but like how much of
uh seeing dad and like you probably
didn't know specifically back then what
we were struggling with you were like
you know probably Middle School
um maybe even younger uh how much of
after that happened do you remember some
of the boundaries that we had in place
how much of what we role modeled has
helped you to create
some of those boundaries because I do
think like Sean Cannell and I were just
talking about like I
don't know anyone as balanced with work
and as stringent about their boundaries
as Brock is and I'm grateful thank you
um yeah uh I think I might have even
learned more from
not necessarily because I didn't see too
much of like you and Dad's private
conversations and talking about his
burnout or what was going on but I
definitely noticed
um things when I was specifically really
young about you you specifically like
maybe working late or working early in
the morning or getting up at 4am to go
to a workout class or things like that
and then I definitely noticed once the
transition had been made and I was maybe
in like high school or so
um and noticing how different you were
interacting with work uh your boundaries
around saying no to Opportunities versus
what you were saying yes to and you know
what you were prioritizing attending
like a you know a practice or one of my
sports games things like that
um so I noticed those things definitely
and those played into my own boundary
setting because I had you as an example
and I also just knew because you you've
said this for years now and I've heard
you say it is that like you were a
workaholic
um and you were addicted to that work
and so with that in mind I was always
like super aware kind of like a you know
it's very similar I think to a kid who
was like raised in like an alcoholic
home yeah where they're like I'm just
not going anywhere near alcohol like I'm
yeah aware that this uh capability to be
addicted is in my family and it's in my
DNA that I know I'm not even gonna go
near it so I think that yeah I have that
same approach towards workaholism and
you know obviously I can't not work like
there has to be a way to make money
um but I think I'm very hyper aware you
know hyper consistent hyper aware of
um that that tendency that I might have
that aptitude towards over working and
then also the other thing that I will
say helps me in this sense
um is I've done a ton of therapy and
from a young age I've done a ton of
therapy so I recognize things that are
within my control and that are my
responsibility because that was a word
that really stood out to me in Vanessa's
blog post or in email was she said I
feel so responsible for everything yes
um and and I totally get that but also I
know how problematic that can be for
entrepreneurs I just want to get her
into therapy ASAP
you know for me that's when I did I had
to go to therapy
um and I my therapist helped me discover
a really early childhood experience I
didn't realize that's where I kind of
formed the belief that I'm special I'm
unique I'm I can save people by helping
them make money by paying for things by
um being the top sales person like I
know it sounds strange as a child but
like it was and I've told the story
before but I won't tell it now but it
wasn't until I went to therapy I was
like and I put the dots together you
know and so I think I I would love to
have her go to therapy she might be I
mean she might you don't want to you
know we don't want to say she's not but
but also you know you pointed out
something else you said wait a second
she's running a multi-million dollar
business
and she has uh nine people yeah yeah um
that was another thing that really stood
out to me and again we're not trying to
bash Vanessa or say she did these things
wrong we're trying to hopefully use her
story as an example
um of lessons that you can learn and so
she mentioned in her
um post that she had nine team members
and she cut that down to one and when I
heard that number I was shocked because
personally just between my wife and I we
have I think it's that same number I
think it's nine team members and our
business is much smaller and we're doing
much less posting much less content
um operating a lot less business centers
than Vanessa if you're saying you've got
a lot more than that sorry to interrupt
but like if you look at our partnership
oh yeah that's what I was going to say
that's that's another yeah probably 10
or 12 people Club Hub team members the
team Johnson team members which are
businesses that I help manage or run or
co-own you know if you include those
people plus my immediate team members
that my wife and I have it's upwards of
maybe 30 people yeah so I I think it
from someone who's probably older than
most people who are watching this and
been in business longer than a lot of
people listening uh I I just have to say
when someone says what's the biggest
mistake you made in business what's
something that you wish you had figured
out earlier I always say
I wish I'd learned to delegate sooner
faster and more because the the quicker
you learn to do that the more you're
going to actually experience that
freedom that everyone wants when they
become an entrepreneur
the side of this that
also I think
um isn't going to affect like I don't
know that everyone's going to relate to
this
but there's that possibility and maybe
on some other scale and that is I
believe
the fame or notoriety
is or can be a trauma for a lot of
people like you look at especially these
people who are not expecting to what
it's going to feel like to always be on
to have people stalking you to have
people know your location and to you
know you you mentioned something on
social media and it sells out and and
then you have no idea who really wants
to be your friend who's really using you
who who it is that really cares about
you and then you've got millions and
millions or maybe thousands of people
who are telling you how much they love
you and that you're perfect and body
goals and and then you've got for
however you know the more popular become
the more likely you are gonna to have
people that hate you and want to say
horrible things and start you know
um accounts basically or YouTube videos
to tear you apart and tear you down and
pick you apart and and that's traumatic
I'm not sure if you've ever watched the
the demilio family show I think it's on
I think it's on Netflix
I think it's on Netflix maybe it's not
we'll figure out we'll put in the show
notes but the second season they follow
um Charlie and what's the other demilio
girl's name Dixie yeah Dixie dimilio and
their family and man
I mean they are just it to me as a mom
it breaks my heart because I can feel
how these are these are young girls and
they're really struggling with the
trauma of Fame and I know some people
are watching listening to this and going
like oh please Cry Me a River like how
sad but like
it messes a lot look at Britney Spears
look at Justin Bieber right now like and
I know that's like a whole nother level
of Fame but is it yeah and I think
you're absolutely right calling it
trauma trauma I looked up what the
definition of trauma is and it is the
lasting emotional response that often
results from living through a
distressing event and becoming famous is
definitely a distressing event I mean
everything you just mentioned is
extremely distressing and it causes
extreme
um emotional responses so absolutely
yeah I want to share um seven things
that people can look out for which will
help them to identify if in fact they
are Maybe
on the path to burnout and Brock while
I'm doing that if if you could pull up
your boundaries that would be totally
yeah I'll find it okay cool so here's
some things I think you should look out
for number one is exhaustion where you
start to feel like you are
um and it's never ending you shouldn't
be sleeping as much as you do because
there's there's no time there's no time
to relax there's no time to
um recover there's no down time you're
working seven days a week if that's the
case
uh you're probably
playing or flirting with burnout number
two would be over do you feel
overwhelmed like when it's just
something small the video won't upload
um you have not you can't think of what
to post
maybe someone's asked you for a deadline
and it just feels like in the past that
was no big deal but now you're
completely overwhelmed by it like you're
breaking down you feel more emotional
more sensitive
uh number three is notice if you feel
disconnected disconnected from
your relationships disconnected from
like the real world like you don't know
what time it is what day it is what
month it is you're you're not feeling
the highs and lows that you used to from
like just normal everyday things in life
you know it's just you're just working
on that hamster wheel like Vanessa
talked about
and number four is for those of you who
are like oh I've never I've never had
burnout this is really important because
I think
I was one of those people I never had
felt burnt out I think for those of you
who feel like I could go and go I love
what I do I could do it seven days a
week I never feel overwhelmed
I want you to pay attention to what your
family and friends are trying to say
like are do they seem annoyed are they
making jokes that have a thread of Truth
to them about how much you're on your
phone how much you're working do they
you know make little Jabs that you feel
like you know do they not understand
that this is my work I have to do this
so if your friends and family seem as
though they're becoming resentful of the
amount of time that you are spending
working or content creating
I think that's an important thing to
take a look at if you've just run out of
like you're like I'm just not inspired
I've done all the topics uh I can't
think of a podcast record I can't think
of an Instagram and I I feel empty like
there's no creativity that's another
sign that burnout is right around the
corner
um number six and this is a big one
you feel an overwhelming sense of guilt
that you're letting people down like you
feel like you're letting your friends
down your kids down your partner down
you feel like you're letting if you take
a break you feel like you're letting
your your followers down you feel like
you're letting your community down you
feel like you constantly have to be
doing more for all of these buckets and
there's just not enough of you going to
go around and you feel like you are
disappointing people
um and number seven which is my last one
I mean there's more but I'll leave it at
seven seven is you just feel anxious
like you have heightened anxiety you're
having a difficult time sleeping
difficult time relaxing
um you you find you're getting upset
much easier and you're just feel that
low level
general anxiety is with you most of the
time that is probably a good sign that
you are getting close to burnout so how
do you avoid getting there well Brock
hopefully you can share with us some of
the boundaries you have in place because
I don't think you have to completely
pull the plug
you know if if that's what Vanessa need
to do that's awesome and I commend her
for that I did on Fitness you know I
didn't pull the plug on entrepreneurship
but I pulled on a fitness and that was
enough for me to let go okay I can
breathe and I don't need to do this yeah
but I think having boundaries in place
to begin with or just to start
establishing them can make a huge
difference totally yeah absolutely and
it was I appreciated you reading those
seven things because I was going through
mentally myself and kind of checking off
like does this category apply to me
um and none of the seven did
unfortunately that's good no yeah none
of the seven which is good because like
I said I'm always hyper aware and really
sensitive to overworking do you feel
like I'm hyper aware of it for you like
I'm always make making little comments
and writing it in your cards and yes
every time we're like out to dinner and
we're like oh we thought of this
business idea and you're like thinking
about it
um or like reminding us to think about
it but no none of those I I yeah not one
of those do I feel
um that's that's true I would even say
the one that like when I heard it I was
like ooh maybe in the past uh was like
family and friends making jokes and
specifically you mentioned like screen
time
um and time on your phone and I remember
I think that was kind of what Tay
recognized and called out in me maybe
about a year or so ago was how much time
I was spending on my phone
um quote unquote working and a lot of it
was working
um and at that time my screen time was
like nine hours a day on my phone
um and so one of my goals for 2023 was
to cut that down to five hours or less
per day and I've gone overboard in that
sense in my current screen time average
for this year is like less than three
hours and it's been awesome so rewarding
to spend less than three hours a day and
like I know three hours sounds like a
lot but when you think about you know
replying to a couple texts you know
going live on Instagram FaceTiming
talking to people like all those little
moments add up and it's really easy to
get the three hours you'd be surprised
um but so I I'm happy that I've gone to
that that number and that's kind of like
my first boundary is just in general
about uh how much time I'm spending on
my phone on my computer
um you know watching these videos and
consuming trying to limit that or having
a boundary set like a firm boundary at
five hours or three hours whatever it
may be
um that's been really beneficial for me
to just like it's like it's like a
you're putting yourself in jail right
like if you can't access your phone
after the fifth hour uh well then you're
not going to keep working
um and so that's that's been a great
boundary for me but I have my other
boundaries pulled up here
um and these are specific to Instagram
uh but I don't listen to any audio
messages or open any video messages
because that significantly slows down my
process I have hired someone to respond
to all of my direct messages and
comments because it is really important
to me I do feel a responsibility to a
certain extent
um to interacting with my community and
staying engaged with them and answering
their questions and serving them but I
recognized about a year and a half ago
that I could not humanly do that myself
right so I outsourced that I hired
someone who her name is Kendra she's my
community manager Community director and
it's her job to respond to all of my DMs
and comments and it is basically a
full-time job for her
um so that's that's a boundary I have
for myself is that I don't really go
into my comment section I don't really
go into my DMs I'll occasionally pop in
and you know respond to a few here and
there but
um I also know that that's going to eat
up my screen time so I'm pretty
protective of not doing that
um although wait a second if you've got
26 of these I'm gonna have a boundary
and say you better get through these
fasts okay I'll go through them fast
um I don't respond to uh DMS that are
longer than a paragraph or two
um I do not follow anyone back unless I
genuinely want to engage with their
content I unfollow or mute anyone who
makes me feel like I'm not doing enough
I'm not good enough or is consistently
bringing negativity to my feed
um I do not work before 10 a.m or after
5 PM unless absolutely necessary and
usually the only time that would happen
is if I'm meeting with a team from Egypt
and you know it's completely opposite as
the Earth so like they have to meet
early in the morning or if I'm doing the
live training that like you know starts
at 6 p.m those are the only exceptions
besides that I do not work after after
those times so when we're done recording
this little podcast today like I'm going
to close my computer close my laptop I
have things that are so on my to-do list
but they're gonna have to wait until
tomorrow because I do not work after 5
p.m
um those are specific to Instagram but
outside of Instagram
um you know you I mentioned my community
manager and how I've outsourced to her
and you said earlier that the biggest
lesson you wished you had learned
earlier on in entrepreneurship was the
necessity of Delegation and I think one
of the questions that I often get is
like what's the best businesses decision
you've ever made what's the best
entrepreneurship advice you can give and
my answer is always the same answer that
you gave that you wished you had learned
which is to delegate and Outsource and I
learned that from you and I learned that
at a really young age so I think I told
this story on a separate podcast
recently where the the first hire that I
made the first virtual assistant that I
brought on I was 19 years old I had made
less than 100 total sales and I think
the the business the unwrapped snap at
that time had made less than twenty five
hundred dollars less than two thousand
five hundred dollars and yet I was
Outsourcing and hiring someone and also
at that time I wasn't married I didn't
have a family I was actually even like
in between transfer from one college to
another so I didn't even technically
even go to school at that moment so if
you were to look at my life like that
was the time where I had the most free
time available
um but ever since then I haven't looked
back and that's why now a couple years
later we're up to you know nine or even
a dozen team members depending on how
you define them but that is just so so
so crucial any other boundaries uh yeah
some other boundaries just off the top
of my head
um I have to do something every single
day that is not productive in the way
that it's going to make me money or it's
going to grow my channels or something
so like I have a binder sitting next to
me right now with like 800 Pokemon cards
that's something you're never gonna see
on Instagram I even thought about
because there's like those live streams
they probably don't come up on your Tick
Tock but they come up on mine where all
the guys do is they open Pokemon cards
they go live and they open cards and you
endowed for my birthday got me like a
you know 18 packs of Pokemon cards and I
was like oh my God we basically got you
the same thing for your birthday that we
did when you were nine yeah
um and a first one second I thought like
dude I could go live on Tick Tock and
just like open all these decks of cards
then I was like no why the hell would I
turn this thing that is purely joy for
me into content like why would I try to
make something out of this so instead I
just open them and I have so many things
like that like I have I watch Like video
game live streamers like Ninja on on
YouTube there's nothing that I'm gonna
gain from that I just watch that because
it's entertainment
um last night when we had our phone call
kind of planning this podcast I was on
my way to go buy a GameCube off of
Facebook Marketplace like there are so
many for Christmas my wife got me a
Nintendo switch I feel like these are
all revolving around video games and
Pokemon but there's also like reading
which I do plenty of uh fiction reading
that's not really going to help me as an
entrepreneur
um just things that fill up my cup and
I'm noticing that what some of your
boundaries are not so much boundaries as
they are kind of goals for yourself that
are not related to to work to content
content creation to making money they're
the things that are there like things I
need to do to live and maybe that's a
really good lesson for some of you who
are you know you're like oh I've got
some of these boundaries in place maybe
what maybe it's not like removing things
so much from your plate but adding you
know in the diet industry I was never a
fan of telling anyone oh you can't eat
this instead I would say you know here's
the things you should eat so start your
meals with plants like start your meals
with dark greens you know leafy greens
and
um start drinking a lot more water so
like adding a lot because when you add
all the good stuff you don't have time
for some of the stuff that isn't so
healthy and I think the same is true of
Entrepreneurship yes like you only have
like you only have 24 hours in your day
yeah so if I have these goals for myself
that I want to spend an hour a day
working out which is something I do
every single day if I want to run 500
Miles this year which is a goal that I
have for myself and so far I'm on Pace
if I wanna you know get to the next
level in my Pokemon game like there's
only so many hours and so yeah I'm
prioritizing those things which fill up
my soul and inspire me and make me just
just bring me joy in life uh then I only
have X number of hours to devote to work
so for me some of the boundaries I have
um they are just very clear a very clear
priority Clarity statement so for
example if doing videos for this podcast
starts to become too much if it starts
to interfere with life with your dad
where we are putting things off then I
just won't do it I'll walk away from it
um I've been podcasting three episodes a
week on the chalene show for years but
right now we are you know footloose and
fancy free and I want to do more living
so I gave up one of the days which also
means giving up a huge chunk of income
but
I can and it's the right thing to do and
I want to do that before I resent it
before I burn out
um other boundaries I have in place I
don't work before 11 A.M I never with a
capital N check my emails I've hired
someone to check my emails I've hired
someone to read through all my emails
respond to my emails I do not go into
slack
um even though I'm the CEO everybody
else lives on slack I won't go in it
because it just will consume my day
um I like you have outsourced a lot of
my social media and that which I haven't
I just it's like I'm a human yeah I've
got 7 000 unread messages and that's
okay yeah so it's a lot of setting up
priorities and just knowing you have to
know
what moves the needle and what you're
doing just because everybody else is
doing it and the last thing I want to
say is something you you know we'll end
this year we could talk about this
indefinitely I just can't wait to hear
people's comments
so you guys if you're listening to this
on uh you know whenever podcast app
you're listening to leave us a comment
you can do so by writing a review for
the show or we'd love for you to come
over to YouTube and leave your comment
underneath our this video for this
podcast because I really want to hear
your your feedback and your thoughts
like what what when have you struggled
with this what part of it is the hardest
for you have you experienced burnout how
did you work around it but again the
thing that you and I talked about last
night that I think is
um is really important to kind of end
this with is to recognize that
if everything relies on you you are
going to burn out
so that next business opportunity ask
yourself is there something else I could
do that's more passive you know like
Brett and I we were talking about
another business opportunity that I had
this great idea and he's like yeah but
then you're that it's you again you
become the product why don't we instead
invest that in an apartment building and
guess what you don't have to stand up
front and sell it I'm like yeah you're
right you know and so I do think it's
really important that as entrepreneurs
you have a degree of financial literacy
and you start looking at how to make
your money make you money so that it's
not always you having to sell you yeah
yeah absolutely agree hey thanks you
guys for joining us here today I'm build
your tribe Brock that was really fun I
look forward to doing it again soon yeah
that was fun and if you watched on the
YouTube video we really appreciate it
welcome to the YouTube channel don't
forget to subscribe so you can see our
other Future YouTube videos and of
course we'll keep you up to date if we
even plan to continue this YouTube
um or if it's ultimately going to lead
to our demise and burnout and we're just
gonna kill the whole YouTube thing and
just stick with audio only because it's
much easier to record a podcast
um you know when you don't have to get
the ring light out and get all the mics
and cameras and all that fancy things
set up yeah
um but we'll see we'll see how it goes I
love you awesome love you too Mom bye
[Music]
foreign